# Somebody Will
## By Sassafrass
## I can't solve the entire problem, but I can contribute, and trust my tribe to go the rest of the way

This song's message is about being a supporting figure and trusting the
rest of your community.  Much of solstice has a message about being a
heroic figure and taking absolute responsibility because no one else
will.  There's a contrast here that should be addressed, if both
themes are present.

This is not to say that both themes shouldn't be present.  *They are
both important themes!*  And neither is wrong.  It's just not quite
clear how to fit them together.

Part of the answer is that we don't trust in the compassion of the
universe, but we do trust the other people in this room.  The arc of
history bends toward four kelvin iron dust but together we can bend it
toward justice if our wrench is long enough.  (If you use that concept
in a speech, consider mixing fewer metaphors.)

Another part of the answer is that sometimes the most heroic act is to
be a good sidekick.  Being a hero is about having something to
protect, and when a true hero sees someone else doing better, they
drop their project and find a way to help.  (Unless there's a specific
reason not to, like redundancy...)

That brings in the entire [modesty](https://equilibriabook.com/)
[debate](https://www.lesserwrong.com/posts/SJKowjkGF7z2sS98f/in-defence-of-epistemic-modesty),
and the idea of becoming a [well-functioning
gear](http://archive.is/CMSYv).  This could get complicated.

It's still an important song and an important message.  Insofar as
heroic vs. modest responsibility is a tradeoff, our memeplex is
probably erring on the heroic side.  Just proceed carefully.

The song is [purchasable in many forms](https://sassafrass.bandcamp.com/album/somebody-will-teaching-collection) from Sassafrass's bandcamp.

The Boston group has a [simplified
melody](https://www.jefftk.com/p/resetting-somebody-will-v2) that is a
better fit for group singing.
